**** *title_inst_10000291-u_4-case_8438 *UKPRN_10000291 *uoa_4 *ID_8438 *panel_A 
We have demonstrated clinical improvement of aphasic patients' language abilities within only two weeks of commencing Intensive Language Action Therapy (ILAT). In the majority of patients language improvement is more significant than that achieved with conventional aphasia therapy. This clinical improvement is accompanied by brain reorganisation as indicated by electroencephalography. ILAT positively impacts on quality of life for post-stroke patients, through rapid enhancement of communication and other language skills, and on clinical management of those patients, through reduced strain on resources, including time and financial cost. Impact has been achieved through a series of stages. First we identified genuine problems with clinical management and rehabilitation of post-stroke language impaired patients (limited resources and restricted access to treatment, a poor evidence base for therapeutic benefits of standard treatments). Second, we established that action-embedded training promotes rapid improvement of language skills, thereby potentially enhancing patients' quality of life. In response, we developed an innovative training programme incorporating action-embedded training to promote rapid improvement of language skills, with low cost implications for healthcare providers. The positive impact of this programme on communication skills is supported by robust research evidence. Third, we developed interest in our therapy through provision of training courses and dissemination in targeted journals. Fourth, successful independent implementation in clinics in Europe and the United States is driving further interest in the benefits of ILAT for patient and health service providers. Intensive language action therapy (ILAT) has been employed by a range of clinical groups world-wide (see Berthier et al., 2009; Kurland et al., 2012; doi: 10.1044/1058-0360(2012/11-0113)), thereby rapidly improving patients' communication and language skills while reducing the strain on clinical resources (including time and money). Patients and clinical staff managing the rehabilitation of those patients are the primary beneficiaries. Cost and time savings and more efficient rehabilitation of language abilities are the primary benefits achieved through adoption of this therapy. A specific form of ILAT focusing on training of "activity/action planning" has led to significant clinical improvements of language abilities in chronic aphasia patients within two weeks of intensive intervention (Difrancesco et al., 2012). Moreover, language improvements are accompanied by cortical reorganisation measured by fMRI and MEG indicating long term, stable improvement in language. Pulverm&#252;ller and Mohr developed the therapy, and conducted efficacy studies. They were the first to design and test the therapy for aphasia patients. The theoretical approach was based in part on constraint-induced motor therapy (CIMT), developed by Taub specifically for rehabilitation of patients with motor problems/ hemiparesis. Other clinicians have combined our therapy with drug interventions to improve neurorehabilitation of language skills in post-stroke patients (e.g., Berthier, University of Malaga). ILAT is a short-term and low cost aphasia therapy and has been implemented in several hospitals and clinics in Europe and the United States (see sources to corroborate impact). It provides straightforward and cost-effective access to language therapy for many patients, helping to significantly improve the quality of life for stroke sufferers. Clinical interest in (and uptake of) ILAT has been driven by our academic publications and aided via the provision of ILAT training courses (by Pulverm&#252;ller) to speech and language therapists (e.g., Bristol, UK 2010 and Leuwen, Belgium 2011). In addition to those clinics that have implemented ILAT in Spain, Germany and the United States, many requests from speech and language therapists to observe ILAT sessions in the UK have been received. 