**** *title_inst_10007855-u_26-case_5901 *UKPRN_10007855 *uoa_26 *ID_5901 *panel_C 
The use of performance enhancing methods and substances, or `doping', has been the major ethical issue relating to elite sports for several decades. Prof McNamee has led internationally recognised research that has contributed significantly to national and international approaches to catch or deter athletes from doping. This has taken the form of research underpinning the development of UK wide approaches to anti-doping education for sportsmen and women, educational materials for sports physicians around the world, and significant influences on policy critique and development at the global level for both the International Cycling Union and the World Anti Doping Agency (WADA). The beneficiaries of the research are both national and international. The benefits are two-fold: (i) contributions to the development of educational materials and programs in anti doping for UKAD and WADA; and (ii) wide-reaching policy influence on national and leading global actors of anti doping, arising from frequent high profile invitations to address key stakeholders in anti doping at WADA, the European Commission, UK Sport and UK Anti Doping, and the Federation International de Medicin du Sport (FIMS) and the International Cycling Union (UCI). National Impact G1 and G2 enabled UK Sport to help build bridges between the anti doping and sports medical authorities and led to an invitation only seminar with leading sports physicians and anti doping personnel in 2009 organised by Prof McNamee, which raised the issue of professional conflicts of confidentiality arising from obligations to the General Medical Council and Health Professions Council and the World Anti Doping Agency (WADA) Code (R3). R1 and R2 provided a basis for the development of stronger stakeholder relations between UKAD and national sports federations leading to the development of a policy tool to assist anti doping prevention. UKAD Chief Executive Andy Parkinson writes "This research assisted UKAD in understanding the tolerance to doping activity and how this changed as athletes sporting careers progressed, providing a useful insight into the psychology and mind sets of the next generation of athletes." He also noted how the research was "essential in developing our understanding, cumulating in the development of a `Doping Signature' model." This model can be used to help identify particularly vulnerable athletes prior to their making decisions to dope. Parkinson writes that the model arose from the research and was utilized as a tool they use with sports stakeholders (e.g. national sports federations) to "communicate these risks to the sporting landscape. At the recent industry conference, the Clean Sport Forum (November 2012), this model was presented and unanimously accepted by the audience of over 80 representatives from a wide range of UK sporting organisations and Universities". International Impact In recognition of McNamee's corpus of published research he was invited to prepare peer- reviewed educational materials, and give presentations to international congresses for anti doping personnel in Seoul (November, 2010). Among delegates were 60 heads/representatives of anti doping from 30 NADOs. His invitation to talk to key Asian stakeholders at the Chinese National Anti Doping Organization (CHINADA)/WADA Gene and Cell Doping Symposium focused on social aspects of Anti Doping policy, with particular reference to the Spirit of Sport (R5 and R6). The Vice President, WADA / President of the IOC Medical Commission, writes that he requested R6, having heard it presented in Doha, at an international Anti Doping conference and that he used it to "help prepare for the Executive Board meeting of WADA, which agreed the final revisions of the WADA Code to be ratified at the November 2013 meeting in South Africa". He also writes: "Professor McNamee's article clearly laid out the logic for maintaining WADAs 2 from 3 stance (performance enhancement or harm to health or against the spirit of sport) on anti- doping substances and methods. His arguments were a significant foil against the move to downgrade the spirit of sport criterion, and therefore to underwriting the logic of anti- doping policy." The re-instatement of three equal criteria for Anti Doping Rule Violations is evidenced in the 3rd and final WADA Code Review Version at (http://www.wada-ama.org/Documents/World_Anti-Doping_Program/WADP-The-Code/Code_Review/Code%20Review%202015/WADC-2015-draft-version-3.0.pdf) Equally the Science Director at WADA writes of the invited presentations noted above that: "in the context of gene therapy and gene doping and the relevance of Prof McNamee's comments and perspectives were highly appreciated by the audiences, in particular from the anti-doping experts attending these two meetings. In addition, in the current context of the revision of the World Anti-Doping Code, Prof McNamee's reflections on the importance of the spirit of sport criterion in the overall considerations regarding identification of substances or methods prohibited in sport was of significance. He contributed to strengthen the debate and ultimately to maintain the current balanced position between the three existing criteria (performance enhancement, protection of health and spirit of sport). Generally speaking, in the symposia referred to above, as well as in his recent publications on this specific subject, Prof McNamee significantly contributed to placing ethical considerations as one of the key elements in the reflections supporting anti-doping policy making a practical impact in the applications of anti-doping rules under the auspices of the World Anti-Doping Code." Moreover, based on R5 and R6, McNamee was solicited to write an accessible article for the WADA magazine, Play True, on the subject of the "Spirit of Sport" that was distributed to all National Anti Doping organizations worldwide. The Medical Director of WADA, writes about this article: "Professor McNamee's discussions on ethics and the spirit of sport have been particularly timely as this Code is being reviewed and we wrestle with such crucial dilemmas such as inclusion criteria for List of Prohibited Substances and Methods." He continues: "Professor Mike McNamee has been involved in numerous projects with WADA. His writings, whether from published articles or work specifically commissioned by WADA education purposes (the WADA Physician Toolkit) have been of great value in our efforts to educate athletes and physicians." (see http://library.wada-ama.org/results.php#/item/000000011019098/view) Given his work for the G3, McNamee was invited to present findings (January, 2011) to the 6th Annual EU Anti Doping Working Group comprising all heads of NADOs in Europe. He subsequently became a member of the newly formed European Commission Expert Group on Recreational Doping, which submitted recommendations for an EC declaration. The Head of the EC Education and Sport Unit writes: "the impact of the research directed by Professor McNamee on EU-level policy development has been consistent and considerable" and that "the Sport Unit has been in close contact with Professor McNamee and found him to be a valuable source of information and inspiration." Finally, in the wake of the Lance Armstrong scandal, UCI commissioned McNamee to address all Directors of the Professional Tours (December, 2012) in their annual meeting. This meeting is normally restricted to heads of professional teams and their representatives that comprise the elite level of world cycling. In this arena McNamee raised key ethical issues that UCI and Professional teams needed to address regarding the cultures of anti doping in professional cycling. He was invited to the subsequent (March, 2103) stakeholder meeting - Anti Doping Working Group - including representatives from professional cyclists, professional teams, TV sport media, International Tour Event Organisers. This group was formed as to discuss the future of anti doping policy and practice for the future health of the sport. 