**** *title_inst_10000824-u_3-case_43396 *UKPRN_10000824 *uoa_3 *ID_43396 *panel_A 
Bournemouth University (BU) has facilitated improvements to health and social care practice through cultural change in care provision. Researchers developed a practice development framework for implementing and assessing the delivery of evidence-based practice in 82 UK health and social care units during the impact period. Benefits to staff include better communication and team structure. Benefits to patients include higher standards of cleanliness, privacy and dignity, as well as a decrease in length of hospital stays and appointment waiting times. Delivery has extended to cover entire NHS Trusts serving a resident population of over 3.5 million, social services departments and third sector organisations across the south of England and beyond. The research has since been applied to develop a similar system in Australia. BU's practice development approach is now widely used in England (R1) with further evidence of use in Australia (R2). This helps health and social care practitioners to use the best available evidence to develop their practice and ensure their care is effective and person focused.Through the practice development process and accreditation teams work towards developing a culture of excellence by becoming person-centred and introducing evidence-based practice through effective culture change and teamwork. Teams are encouraged to question and challenge current practice and, by using evidence, improve services. Each PDU must demonstrate: - An understanding of the service user needs and clear mechanisms for communicating and listening to users and carers. - How developments are researched, evidence-based, evaluated and disseminated to demonstrate best practice and to contribute to the local, national and international evidence base. - A clear action plan that outlines the aims for development of services and team members that has links to national and local host organisation's priorities. - A leadership structure that supports the delivery and development of multi-agency inter- professional care in line with the action plan. - A defined communication structure to ensure the collaboration of team members and the provision of effective inter-professional care. - A clear understanding of the user journey and understanding of the team member's contribution to the success of the user experience. - How services have been developed taking a `whole systems' approach, ensuring the entire user journey is improved. - Clear partnerships with an academic department and other agencies required to support research and the dissemination of best practice. This explicit set of standards is then assessed by a panel of external experts from practice and academia who examine a portfolio of evidence and visit the unit to observe and speak to service users, carers and staff. Units are reaccredited on a three-yearly basis to ensure high standards are maintained. Since 2008, BU researchers have facilitated the set-up and accreditation of 47 PDUs and reaccreditation of 35 (Fig. 1), working with 82 units in total. This covers 6 counties in the UK (Fig. 2), including 8 NHS Trusts serving a resident population of over 3.5 million (R3). Units accredited and reaccredited include social services departments, dementia services and children's units (R4). The overarching impact of BU's practice development process is a change in culture, leadership and team creation. There is an extensive list of NHS and social care unit contacts that can corroborate this, demonstrating an effective move to evidence-based practice, improved communication between staff and service users and consistently improved inter-agency working. These include the following testimonials: "Developments through practice development include pioneering work in helping young people with chronic conditions make the difficult transition from children's to adult services; making improvements to cleanliness; working with the public and patients to revise visiting times and protect patient privacy and dignity; introducing matron ward rounds and reducing waiting times for echo-cardiograms." Cardiology Department Matron &#8212; Poole Hospital NHS Foundation Trust (R5). "Implementation of a new pain pathway through practice development after total knee replacement led to reduced pain and 0.5 day reduction in length of stay." Orthopaedic Unit Ward Manager, Poole Hospital NHS Foundation Trust (R6). Organisations reap the benefits of multi-disciplinary teams and a multi-agency approach, as well as new leadership roles. Some further specific and measurable impacts include: - The North Essex NHS Foundation Trust `Patient Pathway', introduced through BU's practice development process in February 2010. This was achieved by establishing working groups who introduced training, amended recruitment criteria and implemented essence of care benchmarking for communication skills and continence management. One year later, there was an overall change in occupancy days since the pathway was introduced. In one ward the bed days reduced by 599 days overall, a 50 % reduction in length of stay of patients. This in turn reduces waiting lists and increases cost effective for the NHS. - The PDU at Poole Hospital NHS Foundation Trust led to streamlined allergy testing in 2011, through the simplification of referral and appointment cancellation mechanisms. This resulted in appointment waiting times reduced from 13 weeks to 2 weeks. Other reported benefits of practice development include a reduction in pain through pain management pathways, improvements to cleanliness, more patient-friendly visiting times and protection of patient privacy and dignity. Benefits on practice include better communication between staff and carers, a reduction in `inappropriate admissions', more effective team organisation and increased funding from service commissioners. These benefits make a significant difference to treatment of patients and working lives of staff in Trusts serving a collective resident population of over 3.5 million. The changes are also contributing to a wider cultural change, which is necessary to improve care. The continuing impact of this research is evident through the development of PDU master classes in Australia, formed from the basis of BU programmes (R2). 